Hello and welcome back to the course on R
programming and today we're talking
about the aesthetics layer of
our visualization and actually we're
going to get introduction to GGplot2, the
main function of the GGplot to library.
So let's go and check it out,
so this is what we did in the previous
tutorial. We talked about factors and we
prepared our data set. Now let's start
talking about aesthetics.
Alright we're going to first load the
library which is or the package the
correct term is load the package using
the library function GGplot2 and the
function that we're going to be using is
GGplot. The last time
previously we used Q plot and Q plots
kind of like a quick plot that's
what the Q stands for. It's a very quick
tool. GGplot is the actual heavy
artillery function of this library and
we're going to start learning it today.
Alright, first you want to just like
with Q plot supply the data. You want
to say data equals movies. Then you want to
create the aesthetics and this is where
things start getting a bit more
complicated but don't worry throughout this
section you will definitely practice
this so many times that it will be
coming to it.
Alright so you gotta type in the
function called aes for aesthetics and that
is a function that allows you to set a
aesthetics and as we remember aesthetics
is how your data maps to what you wanna
see. It's it's not even the geometry layer yet.
We're still if I go back here, we still
here. So we're these first two layers are
insufficient actually see something
we'll need the geometry layer so let's
go ahead and first tell ggplot how we
want to map the data. We want to say,
let's go ahead and start by creating
that plots that the CEO wanted. The
critic rating on the bottom and axis on
the audience rating on the top on so we
want to say X because critic rating and
now we can actually not say movies
dollar sign, critic rating because GGplot
knows that we're working with this data set
and then here we're going to go
y equals audience rating alright. So what
happens if I run this line? Nothing
happens, but actually let's have a
look here. You can see that an empty plot
has appeared with nothing on it and why
is that? Well we did say critic rating. We
want critic rating on the bottom and
audience rating on the top. That's an
order on the Left. That's right, but where
are the dots or the squares of the
triangles of the lines.
Well that's exactly it. On a GGplot doesn't
know what we want.
He doesn't know that we want lines or do
we want dots or do we want bubbles? So
we've got to tell it right? So we've got
we're actually going to run a bit
ahead of ourselves we're going to
introduce the geometry layer but it's a
necessity because otherwise we won't see
anything so let's go ahead and just copy
that and this time we'll say plus right
and it's let's actually say here and
geometry so we remember what's going on
plus and here we're going to say geome
underscore point and so if we run this
now,
there we go. Now we can see something
good and by the way is a convenient to
add new layers with this plus sign when
you just put them on a new line. So we
keep the plus on this line so R doesn't run
this line by itself. It
expects a new line and then you just add a
new layer on every new line and just
more convenient like that. So like this I
can either highlight both lines and run
it or I can lie run line by line and
R will wait until the end and so there
we go that's our critics rating and
audience ratings. Okay beautiful,
so now what we're going to do let's add
more aesthetics and let's remember aesthetics are
things that we can see right? Now we have
the geometry, now we can assign more
parameters of that challenge and what is
the parameter of this challenge and
another one is of course color so let's
do that. Let's add color I'm gonna just
copy this so you don't have to retype it
and here we're going to say comma, I'm
sure here I'm gonna say color equals genre that
makes sense right? So if I run these two
lines, you'll see that the plot has been
colored by the genre of movie and we
actually got a legend so GGplot is
actually very smart. We don't have to
create the legend on our own it gets
added automatically. Alright,
and another thing is like because we're
running out of space and we're going to
put this on a new line as well and
because of this comma, R is going to know
that this line's not finished. So it's going to go
and wait until we're on all of them.
Alright and now we're going to add another
aesthetic which size, size another
thing we can see right and all this is
possible because we know or R knows
what geometry we want and now we can just
keep adding things on, so we're going to say
size equals let's also genre right?
Let's have a look at that,
so what you'll see here is that they're
colored by the size is selected by genre
which and you've got a legend here which
combines color and generally which are very
smart but you've got a warning at the
bottom saying using size for discrete
variable is not advised. Makes sense right?
Because that's very misleading to the I,
why would thriller be bigger than action.
What is the logic behind that? So we're
going to replace that. We're going to say
add size, what's a better way and here
we can say instead of genre, well let's
just say budget budget millions is our
variable and if I run that, okay that
makes more sense right? So bigger bubbles
represent movies that had a bigger
budget and smaller bubbles are smaller
budgets and then color is genre and then
you've got the critic rating here and
the audience rating and you can already
tell some some very interesting insights
from this visualization on its own. You can
see that,
alright so if our horizontal or our
diagonal goes through this, you can see that
the audience is definitely more
forgiving to movies and they only kind of
lineup together with the critics over
here so the audience, the bubbles are
always above the diagonal mostly above
the diagonal and it means the audience
is decorate the movies higher and you
can tell other things from here as well.
Like this not, it's a bit hard because
and we'll make it. We'll definitely make
it better throughout this section but
it's already a good starting point. So
here I wanted to say something like I
wanted to say this is number one that
we're going to put into our
visualization but I'll just keep it like
that but remember that we will make it.
We will improve it further down in the
section as we learn new things, We'll see
how we can actually position but it's
already a great start and that's it for
today. In the next tutorial, we will learn
another new skill of GGplot
and go ahead and practice with that, try
fiddling around with the GGplot function and
changing the variables or aesthetics
here and I look forward to seeing you next time. Until then,
happy coding.